@c -*- mode: texinfo; coding: utf-8 -*-
@c This is part of the Grip User Manual.
@c Copyright (C)  2011 - 2016
@c David Pirotte <david at altosw dot be>
@c See the file grip.texi for copying conditions.


@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

@menu
* About Grip::                
* The name::
* Savannah::
@c * What else::
* Obtaining and Installing Grip::
* Reporting Bugs::
@end menu


@c @unnumberedsec About Grip
@node About Grip
@section About Grip


@uref{@value{UGRIP}, Grip}, a Grip of Really Important Procedures, is a
@uref{@value{UGUILE}, Guile} Scheme toolbox currently composed of
@emph{Grip} itself, @emph{Grip-SQLite}, @emph{Grip-Gnome} and
@emph{Grip-Clutter}.

@emph{Grip}, @emph{Grip-SQLite} and @emph{Grip-Gnome} are mostly used by
@uref{@value{UFOLIOT}, GNU Foliot}, a small and easy to use time keeping
application entirely written in @uref{@value{UGUILE}, Guile} Scheme.

@quotation
@strong{Note:} @emph{Grip}, @emph{Grip-SQLite} and @emph{Grip-Gnome}
need to be and will be rewritten, I started already, you'll spot that by
yourself in the code if you visit it: indeed, they come from old times,
when I could not trust the Guile's module system, Goops ... and myself
[as a schemer :)].
@end quotation

@emph{Grip-Clutter} is recent and reasonably well designed and coded,
despite some @uref{@value{UGUILE-GOOPS}, Goops} problems, which we're
working on with Guile's maintainers, but it still needs more and some
app(s) to proove this. So no fixed API yet either. It has some good
Clutter examples, more to come soon.

So, all this said, you are welcome to try and use @emph{Grip}, keeping
the above in mind, come and help to get it better designed, coded and
debugged, thanks!


@node The name
@section The name

The term @strong{Grip} is from the early era of the circus. See the
following @uref{@value{UGRIP-WIKIPEDIA}, Wikipedia}, page for a full
description, where you'll read the following extract:

@quotation
... From there it was used in vaudeville and then in today's film sound
stages and sets. Some have suggested the name comes from the 1930s–40s
slang term for a @strong{Tool Bag} or @strong{Grip} that these
technicians use to carry their tools...
@end quotation


@node Savannah
@section Savannah

@uref{@value{UGRIP}, Grip} also has a [non GNU]
@uref{@value{UGRIP-SAVANNAH}, Savannah} project page.


@c @node What else
@c @section What else

@c Grip is written in @uref{@value{UGUILE}, guile}, an interpreter and
@c compiler for the @uref{@value{USCHEME}, scheme} programming language.
@c It uses @uref{@value{UGUILE-GNOME}, guile-gnome}, <fixme guile-clutter>,
@c @uref{@value{USQLITE}, SQLite}.


@node Obtaining and Installing Grip
@section Obtaining and Installing Grip

@emph{Grip} can be obtained from the following
@uref{@value{UGRIP-RELEASES}, archive} site.  The file will be named
@emph{grip-version.tar.gz}. The current version is @value{VERSION}, so
the file you should grab is:

@tie{}@tie{}@tie{}@tie{}@uref{@value{UGRIP-LATEST}, grip-@value{VERSION}.tar.gz}

@menu
* Dependencies::
* Quickstart::
@end menu

@node Dependencies
@subsection Dependencies

Grip will look for the following dependencies and will try to install
all its components, but will only do so if it can effectively install
Grip core and statisfy the component specific requirement(s).

@strong{Grip}

@itemize @bullet
@item
Autoconf >= 2.69
@item
Automake >= 1.14
@item
@uref{@value{UGUILE}, Guile-2.0} >= 2.0.11 or Guile-2.2
@end itemize

@strong{Grip-SQLite}

@itemize @bullet
@item 
@uref{@value{USQLITE}, SQLite} >= 3.7
@end itemize

@strong{Grip-Gnome}

@itemize @bullet
@item
@uref{@value{UGUILE-GNOME}, Guile-Gnome} >= 2.16.4, the following
wrappers:

  @indentedblock
  Gobject, Glib, Pango, Pangocairo, libgnome, lingnomeui, libglade, Gtk
  @end indentedblock
@end itemize

@strong{Grip-Clutter}

@itemize @bullet
@item
@uref{@value{UGUILE-CLUTTER}, Guile-Clutter} >= 1.12.2.1
@end itemize


@node Quickstart
@subsection Quickstart

Assuming you have satisfied the dependencies, open a terminal and
proceed with the following steps:

@example
cd <download-path>
tar zxf grip-@value{VERSION}.tar.gz
cd grip-@value{VERSION}
./configure [--prefix=/your/prefix]
make
make install
@end example

To use grip <fixme>.

@strong{Notes:}

@enumerate
@item
In the above @code{configure} step, @code{--prefix=/your/prefix} is
optional.  The default value is @code{/usr/local}.
@ifhtml
@*@*
@end ifhtml

@item
To install Grip you must have @code{write permissions} for the following
directories:

@example
$prefix and its subdirs
Guile's global site directory
Guile's site ccache directory
@end example

You may check the above two latest directories location using:

@example
guile -c "(display (%global-site-dir)) (newline)"
guile -c "(display (%site-ccache-dir)) (newline)"
@end example

Grip's modules and Grip-Clutter examples will be installed in Guile's
global site directory. Grip's compiled modules will be installed in
Guile's site ccache directory.

@item
In case you need to augment Guile's @uref{@value{UGUILE-LOADPATH}, load
paths} [for your own application(s) for example], you can: (a)
create/update your personnal ~/.guile file, (b) update Guile's global
site located init.scm file or (c) define/update your GUILE_LOAD_PATH
shell environment variable.
@ifhtml
@*@*
@end ifhtml

@item
Like for any other GNU Tool Chain compatible software, you may install
the documentation locally using @code{make install-html} [or @code{make
install-pdf} ...].

@end enumerate

Happy Grip!


@node Reporting Bugs
@section Reporting Bugs

Please send your questions, bug reports and/or requests for improvements
to @email{david at altosw dot be}.
