@c -*- mode: texinfo; coding: utf-8 -*-
@c This is part of the Grip User Manual.
@c Copyright (C)  2011 - 2016
@c David Pirotte <david at altosw dot be>
@c See the file grip.texi for copying conditions.

@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface

This manual describes how to use Grip.  It relates particularly to 
Grip version @value{VERSION}.

@menu
* Contributors to this manual::
* Grip License::
@end menu

@node Contributors to this manual
@unnumberedsec Contributors to this Manual

Like Grip itself, the Grip user manual is a living entity. Right now, the
contributors to this manual are:

@itemize @bullet
@item Christian Lalune
@item David Pirotte
@end itemize

who are also the authors and maintainers of Grip.

You are most welcome to join and help.  Visit Grip's web site at
@uref{fixme} to find out how to get involved.


@node Grip License
@unnumberedsec The Grip License
@cindex copying
@cindex GPL
@cindex license

Grip is Free Software.  Grip is copyrighted, not public domain, and there are
restrictions on its distribution or redistribution:

@itemize @bullet
@item
Grip and supporting files are published under the terms of the GNU
General Public License version 3 or later.  See the file @file{LICENSE}.

@item
This manual is published under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License
(@pxref{GNU Free Documentation License}).
@end itemize

You must be aware there is no warranty whatsoever for Grip.  This is described
in full in the license.


@c Local Variables:
@c TeX-master: "grip.texi"
@c ispell-local-dictionary: "american"
@c End:
